Genie Lamp 1.0
Prepared By: 
Alena Stavrova
May 18, 2022

1.0 INTRODUCTION
The product to be tested is the Genie Lamp. The main function of the lamp is to grant its owner three wishes. 

2.0 OBJECTIVES AND TASKS
2.1 Objectives
The objective of testing is identifying and reporting the potential issues in the scope (see par. 4.0 SCOPE). After the testing is done, the third parties will use the information to upgrade the current version into the Genie Lamp 2.0.  
2.2 Tasks
The tasks include writing the specification (see Lamp Requirement Specification), testing and problem reporting. 

3.0 DEFINITIONS
Product – the Genie Lamp in its current version 1.0 which includes the lamp itself and a genie in it.
User – an individual who finds the lamp, summons the genie and is granted three wishes (see also Activation)
User Interface (UI) – the outside appearance of the lamp
Activation – the act of summoning the genie through rubbing the lamp
Frontend – a part of the product with which a User interacts; includes UI, user input (e.g. activation, wishes, questions) and user flow (e.g. the sequence of wishes) when interacting with the Product
Backend – a part of the product which a User does not see (‘the data access layer’); includes processing user input (e.g. interpretation or misinterpretation by a genie) and inner architecture (e.g. the insides of the lamp)
Lamp Requirement Specification (LRS) – a document prepared by the testing team that contains the known requirements for a product (as per the product owner statement). The product owner did not provide any formal documentation.

4.0 SCOPE
4.1 What will be tested
The following aspects of the Product will be tested:
•	Lamp Requirement Specification (LRS)
•	User Interface (UI)
•	Frontend
4.2 What will not be tested
•	Backend
•	Inner architecture

5.0 TESTING STRATEGY
5.1 Lamp Requirement Specification (LRS)
Methodology: documentation testing
5.2 User Interface (UI)
Methodology: manual testing
5.3 Frontend
Methodology: manual testing, test scenarios

6.0 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS
1 Genie lamp

7.0 ENVIRONMENT REQUIREMENTS
Testing will take place indoors and outdoors. 

8.0 TEST SCHEDULE 
Testing will be divided into 3 consecutive parts corresponding to the aspects of the Product to be tested: Lamp Requirement Specification (LRS), User Interface (UI) and Frontend. The milestones will be the completion of each part of testing:
•	Milestone 1: testing Lamp Requirement Specification (LRS) is completed
•	Milestone 2: testing User Interface (UI) is completed
•	Milestone 3: testing Frontend is completed
[Timeline?]

9.0 PROBLEM REPORTING
Problem Reporting
When a defect is found, a Bug Report is to be filled (see Appendix). [Bug Report создадим позже]

10.0 RESOURCES/ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES
Staff involved in testing – their roles:
Alena Stavrova – Documentation testing, Manual testing, Test scenarios
Hardware requirement (see 6.0 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS) is to be provided by the client.

11.0 SCHEDULES
Major Deliverables: 
•	Test Plan
•	Test Cases
•	Test Scenarios
•	Bug Reports

12.0 APPROVALS
Name (In Capital Letters) Signature Date:
1. Alena Stavrova 	/signed/ 	May 18, 2022
2. The Client		/signed/	May 18, 2022
